# BellaBeat-a-case-study-with-R

### ABOUT TASK
  
  Nowadays, smart devices can track various types of data, such as menstrual cycles, sleep, hydration, and more. The main task is to examine how people use their smart devices and identify usage trends for these features. This analysis aims to determine which features are most used and appealing to users and which features should be prioritized for improvement or development in Bellabeat products.

Since the main stakeholders, need insights into which features require enhancement and increased investment. By analyzing smart device usage data, I can identify which features or trackers are used the most, the time periods of their usage, and their frequency of use. Additionally, these trends will aid in improving Bellabeat's marketing strategy by highlighting the least used features (possibly due to user confusion or lack of awareness). Promoting and advertising these underutilized features can help Bellabeat products gain a competitive edge.


### DATASET

  The data source used for this case study is FitBit Fitness Tracker Data. This dataset stored in Kaggle and was made available through Möbius. https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit
  These datasets were generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. Variation between output represents use of different types of Fitbit trackers and individual tracking behaviors / preferences.
The data set contains 29 CSV files organized in long format. 

* Reliability: The data comes from 30 fitbit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data.
* Original: Third party data collect using Amazon Mechanical Turk.
* Comprehensive: The dataset contains multiple fields on daily activity intensity, calories burned, steps taken, amount of sleep and weight logs.
* Current: This data is from March 2016 through May 2016. The data is not current.
* Cited: Unknown,third party data.

### USED PACKAGES (RStudio)

- library(tidyverse)
- library(dplyr)
- library(lubridate)
- library(ggplot2)
- library(janitor)
- library(readr)


